# MODEL1006230014: Halloy2002_FollicularAutomaton

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230014.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230014.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
**The follicular automaton model: effect of stochasticity and of synchronization of hair cycles.**   
Halloy J, Bernard BA, Loussouarn G, Goldbeter A. _J Theor Biol_ 2002 Feb
7;214(3):469-79 [11846603](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11846603) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Human scalp hair consists of a set of about 10(5)follicles which progress
independently through developmental cycles. Each hair follicle successively
goes through the anagen (A), catagen (C), telogen (T) and latency (L) phases
that correspond, respectively, to growth, arrest and hair shedding before a
new anagen phase is initiated. Long-term experimental observations in a group
of ten male, alopecic and non-alopecic volunteers allowed determination of the
characteristics of hair follicle cycles. On the basis of these observations,
we previously proposed a follicular automaton model to simulate the dynamics
of human hair cycles and the development of different patterns of alopecia
[Halloy et al. (2000) Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. U.S.A.97, 8328-8333]. The
automaton model is defined by a set of rules that govern the stochastic
transitions of each follicle between the successive states A, T, L and the
subsequent return to A. These transitions occur independently for each
follicle, after time intervals given stochastically by a distribution
characterized by a mean and a standard deviation. The follicular automaton
model was shown to account both for the dynamical transitions observed in a
single follicle, and for the behaviour of an ensemble of independently cycling
follicles. Here, we extend these results and investigate additional properties
of the model. We present a deterministic version of the follicular automaton.
We show that numerical simulations of the stochastic version of the automaton
yield steady-state level of follicles in the different phases which approach
the levels predicted by the deterministic equations as the number of follicles
progressively increases. Only the stochastic version can successfully
reproduce the fluctuations of the fractions of follicles in each of the three
phases, observed in small follicle populations. When the standard deviation is
reduced or when the follicles become otherwise synchronized, e.g. by a
periodic external signal inducing the transition of anagen follicles into
telogen phase, large-amplitude oscillations occur in the fractions of
follicles in the three phases. These oscillations are not observed in humans
but are reminiscent of the phenomenon of moulting observed in a number of
mammalian species. Copyright 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Halloy J, Bernard BA, Loussouarn G, Goldbeter A.
(2002) - version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/d7d548e6052377e92e78abeafbfd8f3a)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Catherine Lloyd**   
c.lloyd@auckland.ac.nz  
The University of Auckland  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


